moreover the word of the Lord came to me
saying go and cry in the hearing of
Jerusalem saying thus says the Lord I
remember you the kindness of your youth
the love of your betrothal when you went
after me in the wilderness in a land not
seven
Israel was holiness to the Lord the
firstfruits of his increase all that
devour him will offend disaster will
come upon them hear the word of the Lord
o house of Jacob and all the families of
the house of Israel thus says the Lord
what injustice have your father's found
in me that they have gone far from me
have followed idols and have become
idolaters neither did they say where is
the Lord who brought us up out of the
land of Egypt who led us through the
wilderness through a land of desert sand
pits through a land of drought and the
shadow of death through a land that no
one crossed and where no one weld I
brought you into a bountiful country to
eat its fruit and its goodness but when
you entered you defiled my land
and made my heritage an abomination the
priests did not say where is the Lord
and those who handle the law did not
know me the rulers also transgressed
against me the prophets prophesied by
bail and walked after things that do not
profit therefore I will yet bring
charges against you and against your
children's children I will bring charges
for pass beyond the coasts of Cyprus and
sea send to Keita and considered
diligently and see if there has been
such a thing as a nation changed its
gods which are not gods but my people
have changed their glory for what does
not profit be astonished oh heavens add
this and be horribly afraid be very
desolate for my people have committed
two evils they have forsaken me the
fountain of living waters and hewed
systems broken systems that can hold no
water is Israel a servant is he a home
born slave
why is he plundered the Young Lions
roared at him and growled they made his
land waste his cities are burned without
inhabitant
also the people of naath and tapa knees
have broken the crown of your head have
you not brought this on himself in that
you were forsaken the Lord your God when
he led you in the way and now why take
the road to Egypt to drink the waters of
Sai or why take the road to
Assyria to drink the waters of the river
your own wickedness will correct you and
your backslidings will rebuke you know
therefore and see that it is an evil and
better thing that you have forsaken the
Lord your God and the fear of me is not
in you says the Lord God of hosts for of
old I have broken your yoke and burst
your bonds and you said I will not
transgress when on every high hill and
under every Green Tree you lay down
playing the heart yet I have planted you
a noble vine a seed of highest quality
how then have you turned before me into
the degenerate plant of an alien vine
for though you wash yourself with lye
and use much soap yet your iniquity is
marked before me how can you say I am
not polluted I have not gone after the
bales see your way in the valley know
what you have done you are a swift
dromedary breaking loose in her ways a
wild donkey used to the wilderness that
sniffs of the wind in her desire in her
time of mating who can turn her away all
who seek her will not weary themselves
in her month they will find her withhold
your foot from being unshod and your
throat from first but you said there is
no hope no for I have loved aliens and
after them I will go as the thief is
ashamed when he is found out so is the
house of Israel ashamed they and their
kings and their princes and their
priests and their prophets saying to a
tree you are my father and to a stone
you gave birth to me for they have
turned their back to me and not their
face but in the time of their trouble
they will say arise and save us but
where are your gods that you had made
for yourselves
let them arise if they can save you in
the time of your trouble for according
to the number of your cities are your
gods o Judah
why will you plead with me you all have
transgressed against me says the Lord in
vain I have chasing your children they
received no correction your sword has
devoured your prophets like a destroying
lion
Oh generation see the word of the Lord
have I been a wilderness to Israel or a
land of darkness why do my people say we
are Lords we will come no more to you
can a virgin forget her ornaments
or a bride retire yet my people have
forgotten me days without number
why do you beautify a way to seek love
therefore you have also taught the
wicked women your ways also on your
skirts is found the blood of the lives
of the poor innocents I have not found
it by secret search but plainly on all
these things yet you say because I am
innocent surely his anger shall turn
from me behold I will plead my case
against you because you say I have not
sinned why do you get about so much to
change your way also you should be
ashamed of Egypt as you were ashamed of
a series indeed you will go forth from
him with your hands on your head for the
Lord has rejected your trusted allies
and you will not prosper by them
you